---
layout: post
title: 'Keywords Planning : Plan your content wih keywords'
date: '2007-03-04T03:13:00.000+05:30'
author: aks
tags:
- Tips
modified_time: '2007-03-30T00:07:49.611+05:30'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-7475258030496424805.post-7352927186281794343
blogger_orig_url: http://techyfreak.blogspot.com/2007/03/keywords-planning-plan-your-content-wih.html
---

<p>While optimizing your website with good keywords is an important part of 
your search engine strategy, I do think however, that too many webmasters 
spend way too much time tweaking it to death. I don’t think that this is a 
good idea nor do I think that it is beneficial to their website. All that time 
spent on one thing while neglecting the rest of their marketing strategies in 
the long run is hurting their online business. So much time is wasted getting 
those keywords just right actually hurts the quality of the content on their 
web pages. </p><p>I know that most of us are taught to find a main keyword and 
build your website around that keyword. I know that’s what I did in the 
beginning. I think that’s a big mistake because it takes away from the 
quality of the content on the website because too much focus is put on the 
keyword trying to fit it in to get that web page optimized for the search 
engines. I’ve seen so many websites where you can tell that the website was 
built around specific keywords because so much of the content is really hard 
too understand and that it doesn’t make much sense at all. You can actually 
pick out the keywords because they are used so many times. While you need to 
use your keywords throughout your content, you don’t need to overkill them. 
Using your keywords too often will actually hurt you with the search engines 
more than it will help you. </p><p>There’s a better way to optimize your 
website without hurting your content. I have found that the best way to 
optimize a web page is to use just one keyword that is super targeted to the 
<span class="fullpost">content on that web page. Use the best keyword that you 
can possibly find and put it aside for the moment. Using a good word processor 
go and write the content for your web pages. Forget about using your keyword 
or writing any html tags altogether until you have finished writing the 
content. When you have finished writing your content, read through it to make 
sure that it makes sense. Also check to see if your content doesn’t already 
have a keyword that you may have already written unintentionally that may be 
better than the one that you have already chosen. I have found many great 
keywords by going through this process. It is advantageous to check to see if 
there are any hidden gems sitting there in the already written content. 
</p><p>If there is not a better keyword within your content, you can now go 
back and start inserting your keyword in the body your web page. The main 
objective when doing this is that your keyword blends in with the content in a 
way that it makes sense. You will probably have to make some changes so that 
it does blend in, and that it does makes sense. Of course you will need to put 
your keyword in the normal places. It should appear in the title, description 
Meta tag, keyword Meta tag, heading, and the body. The body is where the 
keyword is most abused by webmasters. While the keyword needs to appear 
throughout the body, it doesn’t need to be there hundreds of times. Using 
your keyword two to three percent of the time within the body is more than 
sufficient. Repeat the above process for all of your web pages. You will find 
that you will have a well optimized website that makes perfect sense. The last 
and probably the most important thing that you need to do when you are 
finished is to forget about doing any more optimizing. It takes time to see if 
your chosen keyword will be of benefit or not. If you use a super targeted 
keyword it will be. Forget about it and go focus on the things that you need 
to get done with your online business that you may have been neglecting. 
</p><p> 
## <span style="color:#660000;"><span style="font-size:130%;">About The Author 
<em>**Brian Queenan**</em> is the owner of 
[http://the-truth-about-internet-marketing.com](http://the-truth-about-internet-marketing.com/). 
Learn what it really takes to market online. </p> 